[Music]
bamboo provides so little knowledge Minh
he needs to avoid energy-sapping
encounters with other pandas
he uses a method unique among bears to
check on his neighbors
sent messages are left on special
marking spots that act like bulletin
boards checking them reveals what is
happening in the community head rubbing
leaves his own scent behind his identity
card to others scent is full of
information and reveals his age sex and
condition
the few hours left after eating or
sleeping are spent on Patrol
pandas rarely travel more than 10
kilometers far less than any other bear
marking allows several small territories
to overlap without conflict
scenting posts are worn smooth by the
countless rubbing of different pandas
their whole body
positively hums without errs
pandas inhabit a perfumed world they're
the only bears with a scent gland the
gland applies a waxy fragrance that
lasts three months by reading these
scent signals a panda monitors its
neighbours checking on the sexual state
of females and the movements of men
pandas also mark with urine he checks
the ground for evidence of other
visitors
treading the ground drives the scent
home
he follows with another kind of message
graphic proof of the inefficiencies of
the pandas digestive system
this extraordinary behavior filmed here
for the first time is performed only by
males in a contest for dominance
reminiscent of a young boys game the
male that pees the highest wins this is
combat without contact the handstand is
the pandas martial art